torchao/prototype/mx_formats/README.md, before:

# MX training and inference with native PyTorch

This is a workflow for e2e training and inference with MX dtypes from the [MX OCP spec](https://www.opencompute.org/documents/ocp-microscaling-formats-mx-v1-0-spec-final-pdf)
in native PyTorch.  We are currently in prototype and are actively working on optimizing these workflows on the NVIDIA B200 hardware.

## Overall status

| workflow | emulation | performance | accuracy |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| training with mxfp8 | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| inference with mxfp8, mxfp6, mxfp4 | ✅ | 🔲 | 🔲 |

ℹ️ <em>See the [feature tracker](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/556) and the [performance tracker](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/1768) for upcoming features.</em>

## Training e2e benchmarks on NVIDIA B200

- Single-node training on 8x power limited B200 GPUs, batch size 1, sequence length 8192, steps 100, `torch.compile`, FSDP2, per-op SAC
- pytorch version: `2.9.0.dev20250815+cu128`, torchao version: `0.13.0+gite4e681be6`, torchtitan commit: `6fc499f6f5b32151a799188be2208cfb09faed30`

| Model         | Scaling                            | Peak Memory (GB)  | Median tokens/second | Speedup over baseline
| ------------- | ---------------------------------- | ------------------| -------------------- | ---------------------
| Llama3-8b     |  none (bfloat16)                   | 33.71             |  8307.5              | -
| Llama3-8b     |  float8 tensorwise (f8 all-gather) | 33.38             |  10417.0             | 25.4%
| Llama3-8b     |  mxfp8_cublas                      | 33.88             |  9969.0              | 20.0%
| Llama3-8b     |  mxfp8_cublas_rceil                | 33.88             |  9642.0              | 16.1%
| Llama3-8b     |  float8 rowwise                    | 33.72             |  8640.5              | 4.0%

**Reproducing training benchmarks**
To reproduce these benchmarks, you can follow these steps:

1. On a machine with compatible GPUs, clone torchtitan and follow local installation [steps](https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan?tab=readme-ov-file#installation),
including [downloading a tokenizer](https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan?tab=readme-ov-file#downloading-a-tokenizer).
2. Install torchao following these [steps](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#installation).
3. From the `torchao/` directory, you can run the following commands to reproduce the benchmarks above:
   - bf16 + compile: `TORCHTITAN_ROOT=<path> ./benchmarks/float8/training/llama3.sh`
   - mxfp8_cublas: `TORCHTITAN_ROOT=<path> MX_RECIPE="mxfp8_cublas" ./benchmarks/float8/training/llama3.sh`
   - mxfp8_cublas_rceil: `TORCHTITAN_ROOT=<path> MX_RECIPE="mxfp8_cublas_rceil" ./benchmarks/float8/training/llama3.sh`

# User API

## MX training

```python
import torch
from torchao.quantization import quantize_
from torchao.prototype.mx_formats import MXLinearConfig, MXGemmKernelChoice, ScaleCalculationMode

# on NVIDIA Blackwell GPUs, you can use cuBLAS or CUTLASS mxfp8 kernels
gemm_kernel_choice = MXGemmKernelChoice.CUBLAS
# gemm_kernel_choice = MXGemmKernelChoice.CUTLASS
# on older NVIDIA gpus, you can run training with emulated MX gemm
# gemm_kernel_choice = MXGemmKernelChoice.EMULATED

scale_calculation_mode = ScaleCalculationMode.FLOOR
# other supported modes: RCEIL, CEIL, EVEN

m = torch.nn.Sequential(torch.nn.Linear(32, 32)).cuda()
config = MXLinearConfig(
    elem_dtype=torch.float8_e4m3fn,
    block_size=32,
    gemm_kernel_choice=gemm_kernel_choice,
    scale_calculation_mode=scale_calculation_mode,
)
quantize_(m, config)

# training loop (not shown)
```

## MX inference

Coming soon!

## MXTensor

This is casts between high precision and MX formats implemented in native PyTorch. Currently
only `torch.float32` and `torch.bfloat16` are supported as high precision formats.

```python
from torchao.prototype.mx_formats.mx_tensor import MXTensor
# Note: MX int8 is not implemented yet
from torchao.prototype.mx_formats.constants import DTYPE_FP6_E2M3, DTYPE_FP6_E3M2
x = torch.randn(32, 32, device='cuda')

# elem_dtype can be torch.float8_e4m3fn, torch.float8_e5m2, DTYPE_FP6_E2M3, DTYPE_FP6_E3M2, torch.float4_e2m1fn_x2
elem_dtype = torch.float8_e4m3fn

# high precision to MX, block size defaults to 32
x_mx = MXTensor.to_mx(x, elem_dtype)

# mx back to high precision
x_hp = x_mx.to_dtype(torch.float)
```

# performance

## mxfp8 gemm

On NVIDIA B200 machines, we use the cuBLAS mxfp8 gemm exposed via the `torch._scaled_mm` op.
We observe a speedup of **2x to 3x** vs the bf16 baseline on common shapes.  To reproduce this
on supported hardware, you can run the following command:

```bash
> python benchmarks/float8/bench_matmul.py --recipe mxfp8_cublas
// example output: https://gist.github.com/vkuzo/a1ddb782e6e1c2aef0c726b3df99efbc
```

## to_mx cast across dim0 and dim1

On NVIDIA B200 machines, our to_mx kernels for mxfp8 achieve **up to 5.5 TB/s** for the dim0 cast (with torch.compile),
and **up to 3.9 TB/s** for the dim1 cast (with a triton kernel). We are actively working on improving
the performance of this cast ([details](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/1768)).

To reproduce this on supported hardware, you can run the following command:

```bash
// dim0 cast with torch.compile
> python benchmarks/mx_formats/cast_bench.py --mode dim0_mx --M 16384 --K 16384
// example output: https://gist.github.com/vkuzo/06aae58de9b8aae02c82adb00eb33197

// dim1 cast with a handwritten triton kernel
> python benchmarks/mx_formats/cast_bench.py --mode dim1_mx_triton --M 16384 --K 16384
// example output: https://gist.github.com/vkuzo/7ac5fce44c9b90bfb9eae2a07b721cda
```

## performance tracker

Please see our [performance tracker](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/1768) for the latest on MX training and inference performance!

# accuracy

## training

* LLaMa 3 8B pretraining on 4 GPUs for 500 iterations shows that loss convergence is not meaningfully degraded (code not in this repo)
* we match bitwise to other implementations of the OCP MX spec (code not in this repo), with a couple of edge cases left to resolve

## inference

Coming soon!

# testing

```bash
pytest test/prototype/mx_formats/
```

Commit message:

Update README.md with mx_formats build from source message

torchao/prototype/mx_formats/README.md, after:

# MX training and inference with native PyTorch

This is a workflow for e2e training and inference with MX dtypes from the [MX OCP spec](https://www.opencompute.org/documents/ocp-microscaling-formats-mx-v1-0-spec-final-pdf)
in native PyTorch.  We are currently in prototype and are actively working on optimizing these workflows on the NVIDIA B200 hardware.

## Overall status

| workflow | emulation | performance | accuracy |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| training with mxfp8 | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| inference with mxfp8, mxfp6, mxfp4 | ✅ | 🔲 | 🔲 |

ℹ️ <em>See the [feature tracker](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/556) and the [performance tracker](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/1768) for upcoming features.</em>

## Training e2e benchmarks on NVIDIA B200

- Single-node training on 8x power limited B200 GPUs, batch size 1, sequence length 8192, steps 100, `torch.compile`, FSDP2, per-op SAC
- pytorch version: `2.9.0.dev20250815+cu128`, torchao version: `0.13.0+gite4e681be6`, torchtitan commit: `6fc499f6f5b32151a799188be2208cfb09faed30`

| Model         | Scaling                            | Peak Memory (GB)  | Median tokens/second | Speedup over baseline
| ------------- | ---------------------------------- | ------------------| -------------------- | ---------------------
| Llama3-8b     |  none (bfloat16)                   | 33.71             |  8307.5              | -
| Llama3-8b     |  float8 tensorwise (f8 all-gather) | 33.38             |  10417.0             | 25.4%
| Llama3-8b     |  mxfp8_cublas                      | 33.88             |  9969.0              | 20.0%
| Llama3-8b     |  mxfp8_cublas_rceil                | 33.88             |  9642.0              | 16.1%
| Llama3-8b     |  float8 rowwise                    | 33.72             |  8640.5              | 4.0%

**Reproducing training benchmarks**
To reproduce these benchmarks, you can follow these steps:

1. On a machine with compatible GPUs, clone torchtitan and follow local installation [steps](https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan?tab=readme-ov-file#installation),
including [downloading a tokenizer](https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan?tab=readme-ov-file#downloading-a-tokenizer).
2. Install torchao following these [steps](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#installation).
3. From the `torchao/` directory, you can run the following commands to reproduce the benchmarks above:
   - bf16 + compile: `TORCHTITAN_ROOT=<path> ./benchmarks/float8/training/llama3.sh`
   - mxfp8_cublas: `TORCHTITAN_ROOT=<path> MX_RECIPE="mxfp8_cublas" ./benchmarks/float8/training/llama3.sh`
   - mxfp8_cublas_rceil: `TORCHTITAN_ROOT=<path> MX_RECIPE="mxfp8_cublas_rceil" ./benchmarks/float8/training/llama3.sh`

:warning: <em>For now you need to build `torchao` from source for optimal training performance. Please see https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/2932 for more details. </em>

# User API

## MX training

```python
import torch
from torchao.quantization import quantize_
from torchao.prototype.mx_formats import MXLinearConfig, MXGemmKernelChoice, ScaleCalculationMode

# on NVIDIA Blackwell GPUs, you can use cuBLAS or CUTLASS mxfp8 kernels
gemm_kernel_choice = MXGemmKernelChoice.CUBLAS
# gemm_kernel_choice = MXGemmKernelChoice.CUTLASS
# on older NVIDIA gpus, you can run training with emulated MX gemm
# gemm_kernel_choice = MXGemmKernelChoice.EMULATED

scale_calculation_mode = ScaleCalculationMode.FLOOR
# other supported modes: RCEIL, CEIL, EVEN

m = torch.nn.Sequential(torch.nn.Linear(32, 32)).cuda()
config = MXLinearConfig(
    elem_dtype=torch.float8_e4m3fn,
    block_size=32,
    gemm_kernel_choice=gemm_kernel_choice,
    scale_calculation_mode=scale_calculation_mode,
)
quantize_(m, config)

# training loop (not shown)
```

## MX inference

Coming soon!

## MXTensor

This is casts between high precision and MX formats implemented in native PyTorch. Currently
only `torch.float32` and `torch.bfloat16` are supported as high precision formats.

```python
from torchao.prototype.mx_formats.mx_tensor import MXTensor
# Note: MX int8 is not implemented yet
from torchao.prototype.mx_formats.constants import DTYPE_FP6_E2M3, DTYPE_FP6_E3M2
x = torch.randn(32, 32, device='cuda')

# elem_dtype can be torch.float8_e4m3fn, torch.float8_e5m2, DTYPE_FP6_E2M3, DTYPE_FP6_E3M2, torch.float4_e2m1fn_x2
elem_dtype = torch.float8_e4m3fn

# high precision to MX, block size defaults to 32
x_mx = MXTensor.to_mx(x, elem_dtype)

# mx back to high precision
x_hp = x_mx.to_dtype(torch.float)
```

# performance

## mxfp8 gemm

On NVIDIA B200 machines, we use the cuBLAS mxfp8 gemm exposed via the `torch._scaled_mm` op.
We observe a speedup of **2x to 3x** vs the bf16 baseline on common shapes.  To reproduce this
on supported hardware, you can run the following command:

```bash
> python benchmarks/float8/bench_matmul.py --recipe mxfp8_cublas
// example output: https://gist.github.com/vkuzo/a1ddb782e6e1c2aef0c726b3df99efbc
```

## to_mx cast across dim0 and dim1

On NVIDIA B200 machines, our to_mx kernels for mxfp8 achieve **up to 5.5 TB/s** for the dim0 cast (with torch.compile),
and **up to 3.9 TB/s** for the dim1 cast (with a triton kernel). We are actively working on improving
the performance of this cast ([details](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/1768)).

To reproduce this on supported hardware, you can run the following command:

```bash
// dim0 cast with torch.compile
> python benchmarks/mx_formats/cast_bench.py --mode dim0_mx --M 16384 --K 16384
// example output: https://gist.github.com/vkuzo/06aae58de9b8aae02c82adb00eb33197

// dim1 cast with a handwritten triton kernel
> python benchmarks/mx_formats/cast_bench.py --mode dim1_mx_triton --M 16384 --K 16384
// example output: https://gist.github.com/vkuzo/7ac5fce44c9b90bfb9eae2a07b721cda
```

## performance tracker

Please see our [performance tracker](https://github.com/pytorch/ao/issues/1768) for the latest on MX training and inference performance!

# accuracy

## training

* LLaMa 3 8B pretraining on 4 GPUs for 500 iterations shows that loss convergence is not meaningfully degraded (code not in this repo)
* we match bitwise to other implementations of the OCP MX spec (code not in this repo), with a couple of edge cases left to resolve

## inference

Coming soon!

# testing

```bash
pytest test/prototype/mx_formats/
```
